life isn't fair and sometimes these
questions of who's good-looking who's
fat and who's thin sometimes they are
relevant to the job at hand to the task
at hand to the questions that are being
asked when they're irrelevant then yes
it's offensive and cruel and catty to
even mention them if you're applying for
a job that has nothing to do with your
physical appearance then nobody should
make the comment that you've got a c-
body nobody should make the comment
you've got name Plus body either it's
totally inappropriate its offensive its
denigrating etc but guess what if you're
in the theatre if you're an actor or an
actress that's right these days we call
everyone actor even if they're female
forgot English language's changed a bit
since I was a kid if you are an aspiring
model of course your physical appearance
matters of course we have to talk about
this stuff and of course in case you
haven't noticed a lot of my fellow
political activists within veganism do
have delusions of being beauty icons of
being models whether that's Instagram
models or runway models or otherwise
exploiting their own sexuality their own
bodies what-have-you
some of my self fellow vegans succeed I
mean there's no doubt with the guy like
vegan cheetah obviously his sexuality
and his body as part of his appeal but
he didn't ride on that did he he does a
lot more than just that he's a
hardest-working man in show business
that guy even if you hate what he does
he does a five-hour podcast and within
that podcast there will be substantive
talk about vegan activism in politics
there'll also be a lot of BS but look
there's a weird parallel between this
question and people accusing me of being
guilty of an appeal to nature fallacy
not every use of the concept of nature
is fallacious I have talked about this
on my channel relatively long time ago
when it was first pointing out to people
look if you are asking how do we design
a zoo enclosure for penguins how do we
design artificial man-made habitats for
penguins than you do look at nature you
look at how do the penguin
live in nature you take that as a
standard as a criterion as you produce a
list of criteria for the temperature for
the type of food they eat exercise that
would get and then you try to make it
enclosure that comes as close to that as
possible or or you make hard decisions
maybe you've got a really tough decision
maybe you say look we only have so much
money either we can save the lives of 20
penguins and give them a good quality of
life in a good enclosure that resembles
nature or we can save the lives of 100
penguins but they're gonna live in a
concrete bunker that we you know with a
refrigerator going it's it's not gonna
be that good of quality of life then
what do you want to do those are hard
hard decisions that we get into the
whole conservation approach presents us
with a completely different set of moral
conundrum
then the games people have been playing
lately about beauty diet weight loss etc
okay in the same way naturally some of
you guys are gonna get angry that I
dared to make a single comment what
somebody's physical appearance but I did
not do so in a vacuum I did not come on
here and make a vacuum saying someone
was ugly or stupid and by the way plenty
of people have made those videos about
me before durianrider claimed that I was
a wife-beater before he claimed that I
was a sexual predator before he
threatened to beat me up in person in
Chiangmai before he said he had evidence
to present to the police he was gonna
bring me in and put me in jail he said
all those things I look it up it's on
this channel you don't have to look far
before any of that he said I was fat and
he said it was on steroids
and it was not in any way relevant to
the subjects being debated now if I were
selling you a weight-loss book I think
you could talk about whether or not I'm
fat if I were selling you a book on how
to gain muscle mass I think you could
talk about whether or not a monster I
think those could be in other
circumstances those could be meaningful
and relevant questions but we weren't we
were talking about things like whether
or not it is ethical for a leader in the
vegan community to falsely claim to have
a disease that he does not have or to
falsely claim that he has cured a
disease that he does not have and I have
made videos on this channel you can go
back and look at them asking the
question of
did durianrider claimed he had Crohn's
disease sometimes he did claim this
sometimes he did not you can try your
own conclusions in those videos and did
he cure what is currently an incurable
disease when I say it is incurable I
mean that the greatest scientific minds
say that at this time there is no known
cure
a hundred years in the future there
could be whatever but at this time
Crohn's disease has no known cure so for
someone to come on the internet sell you
a diet book and claim that he
miraculously healed that condition and
let's be honest durianrider has a long
list of mystery diagnosis of illnesses
and psychological conditions that he
claims he's cured through his diet and
lifestyle choices that he wants to sell
you as a package deal my critique of
those issues it is actually not relevant
it's not meaningful to point out that
I'm fat to say that I don't deserve to
have an opinion on something like
vivisection on various questions of
animal rights ecology at a very
controversial video here talking about
how much water we actually save as
vegans if you're eating fruit as opposed
to eating pork the statistics are
actually not that strongly in favor of
veganism it looks pretty grim it's quite
possible on a fruitarian diet could be
having a much worse eka logical impact
than someone here in China who eats
mostly grains mostly rice with little
bits and pieces of pork thrown in which
is what they eat a lot of people here in
China you know it's they're not they're
not vegetarian they're not vegan but
there's just not that much quantity of
meat in their diet when you do the math
who is actually having more of an impact
on water use water use being one of the
main themes raised by cowspiracy and
other popular documentaries in veganism
it turns out that vegans we don't have
the huge exponential of exponential
advantage that we pretend we do so to me
those are questions worth asking you can
disagree with me you can watch the video
you can say interesting points um you
can shrug your shoulders I mean again
that video I present the charts but no
to say I'm fat or I'm ugly ugly is
irrelevant but guess what if you want to
be an actor here's what you have to know
and I know this because I have this much
experience in the theater okay
if you want to be an actor it doesn't
mean you want to act it means you want
to go to auditions it means you want to
wake up in the morning memorize the
script stand in a room in front of a
bunch of strangers who are bored and
you've already seen fifty other people
reading exactly the same script and you
want to present yourself to them heart
and soul say am i good enough am I
pretty enough am i right for this part
and you're gonna hear No again and again
and again that's what it is to be an
actor okay being an actor isn't about
acting it's about auditioning it's about
having the strength of character
adaptability vivacity whatever you want
to say to go through that addition
process a hundred times or a thousand
times and even if they tell you that you
don't get the part because you've got a
c- body that you get up the next morning
and you go to an audition again okay I
have actually no delusions about my own
looks or appearance I remember a casting
agent once came up to me and was
interested in putting me into the movies
I could tell the whole story but I'm
just keeping it really short here a
casting agent said realistically enough
he thought he could find parts for me as
a villain he specifically said he
thought I would be great as a corrupt
lawyer he had a few other examples now I
know I know why that guy came up and
talked to me actually wants really
different circumstance remember once a
guy in the in the record industry in the
music industry at a karaoke bar he
actually asked me if I was if I was
interested in getting involved with with
singing or what-have-you
that situation was not it's not that
flattering uh for one thing that guy he
was legit but he was he was very drunk
he was I think both drunk and smoking
marijuana that night but he was really
impressed by my my performance on stage
you thought I was really charismatic and
he was he was hit arrested in meeting
with me however that like I didn't go to
our dish I didn't follow up with them
they might figure it out really really
soon that there's there's no talent
behind the charisma I have no background
it's secure or playing music um look the
world of
I think is full of people who have to
sit there and say look you're
good-looking enough to be a comedian but
you're not good-looking enough to play a
romantic role
oh you're good-looking enough to be a
villain but you're not good-looking
enough to be a hero and maybe that's
nasty and brutal and heartbreaking and
maybe a lot of you people playing this
game on YouTube are too sensitive
you're delicate emotional butterflies
whatever it is you can't take the heat
well that's one of the most crucial
differences between YouTube and real
television isn't it none of you people
had to go through an audition to get
this right and now we're seeing all this
fall out seeing people have a
emotional meltdown because they feel
they're not pretty enough or they're not
smart enough or someone dared to say
something so terrible them as to say
that they're stupid or even not even
that they are stupid but that one
argument they made a stupid one video
and they have an emotional meltdown and
freak out and start lashing out and
start doing unethical things like taking
private emails and denouncing people and
making pseudo psychological you know
character assassination videos the whole
point is to maintain your poise and
dignity even when you face to face that
stuff okay even when you get the bad
news even when you fail the audition and
I've got to say to you guys my mo and
running this channel still hasn't
changed I'm still making these videos so
that one day my daughter can see them if
you guys may think I'm a jerk but you
got to be a jerk to some extent to
survive in this world I got one piece of
hate mail from a woman who I assume is
vegan I don't know saying to me that she
teaches her children never to use the
word stupid that that's just such a
terrible hurtful thing to ever say that
another human being is stupid so her
children are never allowed to use the
word stupid how do you think that goes
down for your kids on the schoolyard how
do you think you're preparing your kids
even to deal with the schoolyard fight
let alone what I just dealt with in
Chiangmai let alone what you're gonna
tell within a in a jailhouse let alone
what you're gonna deal with in in the
workplace there's a lot of
rough-and-tumble in this life let alone
what you're going to deal with if you
actually go to an audition whether it's
as a musician or
model or an actress okay I do not want
my daughter to grow up without knowing
how to swear without knowing how to
curse without knowing how to fight I
don't I don't want to grow up thinking
her father is an angel I don't want to
grow up thing your father's a hippie you
know what there's a time for coarse
language and there's a time for
businesslike formal appropriate language
there's a time to give academic lectures
and as I've said recently I have never
wanted my YouTube channel to resemble an
academic lecture I want to give it to
you raw I want to add whether it's my
daughter watching this or - whether it's
something else that I'm really going for
here I'm not trying to reproduce what
you get in a business meeting or an
academic lecture no you shouldn't curse
all the time you shouldn't be out of
control you shouldn't be insulting to
people all the time but there's a time
and a place for those things - and
that's all part of the rough-and-tumble
of life so I'm sorry folks if you or
personally shocked that I would use the
term see - if referring to another
person's body in this context where I'm
talking about this fundamental problem
that in veganism we have models who are
not really models beauty icons who
aren't really beautiful people who never
get past you know ondition process we
have filmmakers who weren't really
making films activists formal items we
have intellectuals who are not really
intellectuals there's a lot of
hollowness you know to what's going on
in the in the movement the movement
itself is not really a movement you know
and even even this question of athletics
we have people presenting themselves as
athletes who weren't really athletes
there was a guy talked to in Chiangmai
he was one of the nice guys to be honest
with you
name up my arm is freezing because I
just got back in the gym he was a nice
guy and when I asked him what he was
doing in Chiangmai I think he said he'd
been there for six months he said
training hey Oh who's wearing old
Baker's oh well you know what are you
training for working training here he's
doing 15 kilometres a day
that's that's not training long-distance
cycling is a sport and there are people
who will tell you you're an Olympic
athlete that you are you have the
material you have the DNA you have what
it takes to be an Olympic athlete
because you're doing 15 kilometres a day
I'm the last person on this earth to
glorify long-distance cycling but I do
have experience with it you can meet and
talk to real people you know you'd be
doing hundreds and hundreds if you were
training but honestly I just blanked on
the guy I just didn't get it I didn't
get that he was so brainwashed by the
leadership of durianrider
that he really thought he was a serious
athlete doing a 15k run on a bike like
it's like a 45-minute run or something
iced when I was living in Vienna in the
burning heat of the tropics I used to do
60 kilometers of thinking I used 260
kilometers for an errand 30k do the
errand I have a cup of coffee back then
I drank coffee now I don't 30 K back I
didn't even think about that
I didn't say I was in training I didn't
think it was an athlete I don't have any
delusions 60 km bike is nothing okay so
this tremendous hollowness in terms of
what's being broadcast about veganism
today that is something in a really
broad way I'd like to counter but also
this timorousness this this lack of
confidence you know come on I want you I
want us to have what it takes to get up
and go to that audition to do real
things I want us to be a movement that
consists of people who are capable of
standing up at City Hall and giving a
deposition of pursuing a real legal case
hopefully not one that's about
defamation or threats of violence but
legal cases that are about water
pollution and air pollution and animal
rights and food safety standards and
trying to change government policy and
trying to get public education campaigns
going I want to roll with a bunch of
highly effective individuals who are
really trying to save the planet we're
really trying to bring about you know
those those first painful steps towards
veganism being a meaningful movement
vegans being a meaningful community the
vegans being a dynamic you know
ethically motivated minority in the
world in
in the 21st century that's what I'm
about and that's upsetting other videos
can I have it this year no can I have it
next year no can I have it within my
lifetime maybe but we're not gonna get
there by flattering each other we're not
gonna get there by telling each other
you're so beautiful when you're not
you're so great when you're not you're
such a great athlete when you're not oh
you could be a model when you can't not
everyone can be a model you know and
even with even with language study all
the time you have to tell people look
you think you can do this in five years
but you can't you know having realistic
goals giving people realistic
expectations down-to-earth feedback
that's an issue even when we don't have
the kind of you know pursuit of fame
money sex etc on the Internet
that of course is fueling a lot of what
people pretend is activism okay
that's what I got to say to you guys
this afternoon in China and you know as
I said before
none of this stuff I'm not ashamed of
this and not hiding this I hope my
daughter one day has the patience to
watch this kind of material for me and
know what kind of guy I am because when
you look at my resume what do you got
veganism Buddhism Asian languages First
Nations First Nations aka American
Indians native people it'd be really
easy to imagine the type of guy I am
when you just look at the facts about me
and think I'm some kind of soft hippie
and I'm not that's not who I am I'm not
the kind of person who would refuse to
call you stupid in a private email
straight to your face when I'm
explaining to you that the reason why I
don't want to talk to you anymore the
reason why I'm giving up on you is that
you're too stupid for me to spend the
time doing it I'm that honest with
people and I'm that real when I give
them compliments as well and I'm the
sort of person where would I get death
threats I don't back down and I'm not
scared and so on there's a hard edge to
me that I don't exaggerate and I don't
glorify but no I'm not a hippie I never
have been a hippie I'm not a victim of a
fad diet I'm not a victim of a weight
loss craze I don't do yoga you know the
a guy I am the reason why I want to be
so real and raw with you people whether
I'm talking about ethical issues
political issues or otherwise is partly
because my ultimate objective fear is
just friendship I want to make friends
with real people who I can get together
with and do real things in this movement
one day I hope it is a movement and I
wouldn't want those friendships to be on
a false basis either I wouldn't want you
guys to think I'm somebody I'm not
or I'm some other kind of guy and also
yeah bottom line whatever 10 years from
now my daughter can watch these videos
and she herself might imagine there's
that stereotype oh my dad's a hippie my
dad's one of these guys who goes around
talking about peace and love and
non-violence I do I talk about
non-violence all the time non-violence
is a huge crucial issue for me but my
vision of non-violence is not based on
an unrealistic hippy detached view of
reality it's based on a really deep
appreciation for the history of
political violence and it's also based
on the desire for all of us
fundamentally to do the best that we can
that's actually a concept that's really
gone out of fashion people like to talk
about good and evil but you know doing
the best that you can is a very humble
way to approach the world because you
can recognize that there are better ways
to do things but sometimes you've got to
look in the mirror and just say this is
the best I can do so this is what I am
gonna do so I close this by saying to
all of you guys again ask yourselves if
you really were trying to save the
planet what could you do you're dead
right there are all kinds of situations
in which human beauty is irrelevant and
in which having a c- body or an a-plus
body is irrelevant
selling diet books is not one of them
selling permanent vacation and lifestyle
activism is not one of them the whole
fantasy of running away and becoming an
Instagram model it's not one of them
matters and of course I would love to
see more of our time and attention and
effort going into those types of
activism where the fat and ugly people
can rule the world and wear it nothing
could matter less than how fat or how
ugly you are